Let's get some practice with marks and filters.
Let's say your boss asks you to dig into the data to better
understand what regions had the highest profits in 2014.
To start, let's drag profit into the row shelf and region into the column shelf.
Now we need to filter the data to only include 2014.
To do this, let's drag the order date variable into the filters.
There are lots of ways to implement a date filter,
but in this case, let's select year here and check 2014.
To show the filter, let's click the drop down and select show filter.
Lastly, let's sort the columns from highest to lowest so that chart is more readable.
You can do this with this sort button at the top of the screen.
Now let's use some additional variables to help us
drill down into the product categories.
We start by bringing in the category field.
You can encode this in a variety of ways,
but the most logical would be to include it in the rows like this,
making a separate bar chart for
each category or to encode it as color, which we'll do here.
When we encode categories color,
you can see a legend appears on the right.
We can use this legend to apply filters by clicking
on them and selecting keep only, like this.
Now we only see the profit data for furniture.
This adds a category filter to the filter shelf.
And if we want to see it,
we can click the drop down and select show filter.
Now were filtered on furniture and let's add subcategory in as color.
Now we can see the profit attributable to each product subcategory by region.
You can add additional detail to the chart by encoding data with the tool tip.
To finish off this plot,
let's add sales data to the tool tip card,
so when you hover over each section,
you can see both the profit and sales.